*: Add resource management topic and split docs (#20010)
pingcap/docs: tidb-resource-control-background-tasks.md

---
title: Use Resource Control to Manage Background Tasks
summary: Introduces how to control background tasks through Resource Control.
---

# Use Resource Control to Manage Background Tasks

> **Warning:**
>
> This feature is experimental. It is not recommended that you use it in the production environment. This feature might be changed or removed without prior notice. If you find a bug, you can report an [issue](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/support) on GitHub.
> 

> > The background task management in resource control is based on TiKV's dynamic adjustment of resource quotas for CPU/IO utilization. Therefore, it relies on the available resource quota of each instance. If multiple components or instances are deployed on a single server, it is mandatory to set the appropriate resource quota for each instance through `cgroup`. It is difficult to achieve the expected effect in deployment with shared resources like TiUP Playground.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The background task management in resource control is based on TiKV's dynamic adjustment of resource quotas for CPU/IO utilization. Therefore, it relies on the available resource quota of each instance. If multiple components or instances are deployed on a single server, it is mandatory to set the appropriate resource quota for each instance through `cgroup`. It is difficult to achieve the expected effect in deployment with shared resources such as TiUP Playground.
```

Background tasks, such as data backup and automatic statistics collection, are low-priority but consume many resources. These tasks are usually triggered periodically or irregularly. During execution, they consume a lot of resources, thus affecting the performance of online high-priority tasks.

> Starting from v7.4.0, the TiDB resource control feature supports managing background tasks. When a task is marked as a background task, TiKV dynamically limits the resources used by this type of task to avoid the impact on the performance of other foreground tasks. TiKV monitors the CPU and IO resources consumed by all foreground tasks in real time, and calculates the resource threshold that can be used by background tasks based on the total resource limit of the instance. All background tasks are restricted by this threshold during execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting from v7.4.0, the [TiDB resource control](/tidb-resource-control-ru-groups.md) feature supports managing background tasks. When a task is marked as a background task, TiKV dynamically limits the resources used by this type of task to avoid the impact on the performance of other foreground tasks. TiKV monitors the CPU and IO resources consumed by all foreground tasks in real time, and calculates the resource threshold that can be used by background tasks based on the total resource limit of the instance. All background tasks are restricted by this threshold during execution.
```
